All right, so now let's revisit
the import static statements
and explore what happens when two of your classes
have the same static variables.
So we need to create a new class static import test one
in the a.d package.
So, a.d.StaticImportTest1.
(typing)
Okay, so there's the code.
As you can see, this class has a static variable APP_NAME
and a static method, log,
as well as a public method, printUniqueStatement.
All right, we're now gonna create
a second class in a different package.
Under the source folder,
so that's gonna be a.e.StaticImportTest2.
(typing)
There's the code.
That's basically the same as the previous class
with minor text changes.
It's got a static variable APP_NAME also,
a static method log as well
as a public method printUniqueStatement.
All right, next we need to create a class
that's gonna test the usage of these static variables.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna put that in the a package.
New Java class, and we'll call this one TestStatic.
In package a is the code.
This is the code to test both classes.
Right, so looking at the code,
you can see that the class imports
the class a.d.StaticImportTest1
and imports all the static methods on a.d.StaticImportTest1.
It also imports the class on StaticImportTest2
and moving on down the method itself,
we're demonstrating using static members that were imported
as well as static members on StaticImportTest2.
Then on the line 19, we're using APP_NAME
and it can be referenced without a class name
because of the import static statement
that we added which was the code on line 10.
The log method can be referenced without a class name
because of the import static statement which is as showed.
And we instantiate StaticImportTest1
and execute a method on it.
APP_NAME in the line below is qualified this time
by the class name StaticImportTest2
and the log method's also qualified as you can see there
and then we instantiate StaticImportTest2
and execute a method on it.
So we run all this code.
We can see the app was working, as you all expect.
All right, so I'm gonna close that one pane
and now I'm gonna add an import statement
after all the other import statements.
And then here on line 14,
I'm gonna type import_static_a.e.StaticImportTest2.*
and suddenly we got an error
where actually this is two errors here.
If we have a look at the first one,
we've got an ambiguous error there
reference to APP_NAME being ambiguous.
This is on the am qualified APP_NAME there.
And likewise for the log statement,
we've got a similar thing there, ambiguous method call
both the log method on StaticImportTest1
and the log method on StaticImportTest2 match.
So both are ambiguously defined now
since both the import static statements
would put in variables of the same name.
Now if I replace this last import statement
which it's currently set to StaticImportTest2.*,
replace that instead with APP_NAME instead of the star.
The errors disappear as you can see there now.
Basically the compile errors are resolved as such
so we can execute the code.
And we can see now from this output,
that APP_NAME without a call off are resolved
to the more specific static import that we just added.
In other words, APP_NAME on StaticImportTest2
was actually used instead to start 'em.
I've had like a StaticImportTest2.
We see confirmation of that APP_NAME = "Second".
And obviously in terms of the logging statements,
they haven't changed because we're obviously
instantiating StaticImportTest1 there and StaticImportTest2.
And obviously in the case
of the second APP_NAME reference here,
we're using a fully qualified reference to that as well,
that's why that's showing in that particular scenario.
But the real main one, the main one here
is this first one on line 21,
working now because we changed the import static statement.
And just to confirm that,
if I then delete this last statement here,
delete the import static statement, run the code again.
This time you can see output now is APP_NAME = "First",
everything else as it was before.
All right, so basically at this point,
everything works as we would suspect.
And what I'm gonna do is undo that change,
and introduce that import back again.
What I'm gonna do now is looking at the imports,
I'm gonna actually delete this first one,
this import for static test two here on line 12.
I'm gonna remove that.
And you can see by doing that, we've got errors again.
Basically, we've got a compiler error now
on the StaticImportTest2 references.
Now this is a hard error to catch just by sight
if you're on an exam question.
And obviously looking at the error,
we can't resolve simple StaticImportTest2
but if we're looking at the imports there,
note that we are importing the static member
APP_NAME from StaticImportTest2,
but this statement does not include
importing the class itself,
so remember to read the import statements really carefully
on exam questions.
Right, so let's undo that again.
So we got code that now works again.
(typing)
Okay.
So items to look for on the exam
which should be low hanging fruit
if you do come across them are as follows.
Firstly, multiple package statements.
A package statement that is not the first line of code
excluding white space or comments.
An import statement not in the correct order
must be after a package statement if one exists
and before any other code.
Import static statement used
in place of an import statement.
An import statement using a higher level package
with a wild card, as we saw a wild card doesn't include
classes in other packages.
An example, import a.*
does not mean import a.b.* for example.
A misplaced wildcard, for example,
the star at the end of a class name or a partial class name.
All right, so next I'm gonna present you
with a few quiz questions and then we'll move on
to a discussion on local variables after that.
See you in the next video.